it's the sound filling a lot of homes at
the moment while the rains been welcomed
filling our dams it's been draining our
electricity with dryers working overtime
sort of three four weeks I've just been
using the dryer constantly mom Melissa
powers been using a lot of power with
all this rain
I'm not energy efficient I do use my
dryer and if there is an easy way where
everything can dry a lot quicker within
the house but it use and dry as much I'd
be happy to use it
well tiny Marie bishop reckons there is
an easy way to dry without using the
dryer you can drive entire household
worth of clothes probably three hours
including Taos sounds unbelievable but
tiny Marie should know is the owner of a
laundry her life revolves around washing
and a secret to dry a free drain starts
with the humble clothes horse you really
can have to drop your clothes dry on a
clothes horse in a matter of hours with
shirts hang them on clothes hangers with
collars turned up we can hook them all
around the edges and get twice the
amount of clothes on this clothes horse
then probably the manufacturer intended
for jeans and pants turn them inside out
before hanging flat over the rack for
quicker drying put a towel underneath to
absorb moisture and a big tip plug in a
fan for extra drying power underneath
it's the perfect way okay underneath the
clothes you can see them sort of
fluttering around just like rays on the
clothesline where you set up your
clothes horse in a house also plays a
big part in how quickly clothes will dry
I'll reveal where in a minute but if you
want to continue using your dryer
there's a few things to bear in mind
with the drought some may not have been
used in a knot maintaining drawers
aren't maintained properly there they
can be a big cause of fires starting in
enhancers Tim Watkins is from Queensland
Fire and Rescue he says before using
your dryer give it a good once-over
removing lint from the filter as well as
the exhaust at the back quite often we
find that people don't realize that they
actually have to clean lint out of their
dryer in fact some people don't even
realize that there is a link filter in
the dryer dryers have gone from zero to
hero in recent weeks they're walking out
the door in white
good stores definitely the yeah the
walking round has spurred on the the
sales of drawers Josh Marshall is from
ret revision dryers their start at $300
right up to two and a half thousand
dollars you're going from a standard
tumble dry into a condenser dry so the
technology slightly differs allowing the
machine to obviously not have a buildup
in your laundry like this ordinary
fluffy feel that you get and allows it
to be recondense down to order in the
other machines of course there's the
running costs to a five kilo load will
cost you about one dollar to dry don't
overload your dryer rise similar items
together and make sure clothes are spun
well in the washing machine before
drying them also many fabrics don't need
to be dried on the hottest settings
cooler settings will save you money and
why not try to beat the showers start
the clothes on the line and then finish
them off in the dryer now back to the
old fashioned drying method in the best
room in the house to hang the clothes
and it's not the bathroom believe it or
not the best place that is to dry your
clothes is Verret why the best
circulation in the whole house because
of course it's not sealed perfectly so
if your dryers on the blink or you just
like to save money now that interest
rates have gone up it is possible to
have clean dry clothes during wet
weather without burning a hole in your
pocket